<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.0 Transitional//EN" 
"http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml1/DTD/xhtml1-transitional.dtd">
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml"
	xmlns:h="http://java.sun.com/jsf/html"
	xmlns:f="http://java.sun.com/jsf/core"
	xmlns:p="http://primefaces.org/ui"
	xmlns:of="http://omnifaces.org/functions"
	xmlns:ui="http://java.sun.com/jsf/facelets">
<h:body>

	<ui:composition template="/WEB-INF/templates/template.xhtml">
		<ui:define name="content">
			
			
<!-- 			<p:layout style="min-width:400px;min-height:200px;">
			    <p:layoutUnit position="west" size="200" minSize="150" maxSize="400">
				<ul class="spaced-list">
				
				<li><h:link value="Overview" fragment="overview" /></li>
				<li><h:link value="Submitting A Job" fragment="submitting" /></li>
				<li><h:link value="Results Page" fragment="results" /></li>
				<li><h:link value="Notification Email" fragment="notification" /></li>
				<li><h:link value="Input Example" fragment="input" /></li>
				<li><h:link value="Jobs Table" fragment="jobs" /></li>
				<li><h:link value="Graphs" fragment="graph" /></li>
				<li><h:link value="The Queue Structure" fragment="queue" /></li>
				<li><h:link value="References" fragment="references" /></li>
				
				</ul>
			    </p:layoutUnit>
			 
			    <p:layoutUnit position="center" > -->

			
			<h:form prependId="false" style="margin-left:200px;">

				<div id="scrolltop" class="title" style="margin-bottom:25px;">
					<h1>
						MoRF<sub>CHiBi_<i>Web</i></sub>
					</h1>
				</div>
				
				<!-- <div class="scrollspy"> -->
				<p:panel style="position:fixed;left:0px;">
				<ul class="spaced-list" style="margin-bottom:25px;">
				
				<li><h:link value="Overview" fragment="overview" /></li>
				<li><h:link value="Submitting A Job" fragment="submitting" /></li>
				<li><h:link value="Results Page" fragment="results" /></li>
				<li><h:link value="Notification Email" fragment="notification" /></li>
				<li><h:link value="Input Example" fragment="input" /></li>
				<li><h:link value="Output Example" fragment="output" /></li>
				<li><h:link value="Jobs Table" fragment="jobs" /></li>
				<li><h:link value="Graphs" fragment="graph" /></li>
				<li><h:link value="The Queue Structure" fragment="queue" /></li>
				<li><h:link value="References" fragment="references" /></li>
				
				</ul>
				</p:panel>
				<!-- </div> -->
				
				<p:fieldset id="overview" style="margin-bottom:20px;">
				   <f:facet name="legend">
				     Overview <h:link fragment="scrolltop" ><i class="fa fa-caret-square-o-up"/></h:link>
				   </f:facet>
					<p>MoRF<sub class="text">CHiBi_Web</sub>, MCW, predicts Molecular Recognition Features (MoRFs) in an amino acid query sequence. For each residue, MCW generates five propensity scores that are associated with the following three features:</p>
					<ul class="spaced-list">
						<li>
							<b>MoRF Propensity</b>:
							<ol>
							
							<li>MoRF<sub class="text">chibi_web</sub>: an overall MoRF prediction propensity score [2] generated by incorporating MoRFchibi and MoRFdc scores.</li>
							<li>MoRF<sub class="text">chibi</sub>: MoRF prediction solely based on the local physiochemical properties of the amino acid sequence [1].</li>
							<li>MoRF<sub class="text">dc</sub>:  MoRF prediction based on the protein disorder prediction (IDP_Espritz_D) and conservation information (ICS_Conservation).</li>
							
							</ol>
						</li>
						<li>
							<b>Disordered Propensity</b>: IDP_Espritz_D provides long trends protein disordered prediction based on ESpritz with the DisProt option [3].
						</li>
						<li>
							<b>Conservation Propensity</b>: ICS_Conservation provides a general conservation propensity score assembled by aligning the query sequence to the SwissProt and the UniRef90 databases [2].
						</li>
					</ul>
					<p>Each of these scores is normalized to approximately fit a Gaussian probability density function specified by the normal distribution N(0.5, 0.01) and is limited to the range [0..1] as described in the article [2].</p>
					<p>While our objective is to predict MoRF residues (i.e. the MoRF<sub class="text">chibi_web</sub> propensities score), providing component scores enables researchers to improve their interpretation of the MoRF prediction when extra information is available. For example, let us say that a region has a moderate overall MoRF<sub class="text">chibi_web</sub> propensity scores and the IDP_Espritz_D component of that score is low, then if some experimental data is available showing that region to be disordered, one can infer that the MoRF propensity score could possibly be higher. Also, manually modifying multiple sequence alignments can be used to improve the quality of the conservation and thus the interpretation of MoRF propensity scores.</p>
				
				</p:fieldset>
				
				<p:fieldset id="submitting"  style="margin-bottom:20px">
				   <f:facet name="legend">
				     Submitting A Job <h:link fragment="scrolltop" ><i class="fa fa-caret-square-o-up"/></h:link>
				   </f:facet>
				<p>To process an amino acid sequence, enter (paste) the sequence in FASTA format into the input box and click 'Submit Job'. When a job is submitted, first it is scanned for input errors and then entered into the queue structure and a job record is inserted into the 'Jobs' table. Once the sequence is processed, results are made available through the results page.</p>
				
				</p:fieldset>
				
				<p:fieldset id="results" style="margin-bottom:20px">
				   <f:facet name="legend">
				     Results Page <h:link fragment="scrolltop" ><i class="fa fa-caret-square-o-up"/></h:link>
				   </f:facet>
				<p>Each page holds the outcome of processing one query sequence and is saved in the server for #{settingsCache.jobPurgeTime} hours. Page life can be renewed manually by clicking the renew button &nbsp;<i class="fa fa-refresh"/> &nbsp;in the results page, or in the 'Saved For' column of the Jobs table.</p>
				<p>The link to the results page is available through the [Ready/Not Ready] button in the 'Results' column of the Jobs table.</p>
				<p>Note that in the case of losing the browser session, links to all results pages will also be lost. If an email address is provided, notification emails are sent upon job completion with an attached copy of the results file and a link to the results page. Otherwise, it is strongly recommended that links to result pages be saved manually or bookmarked.</p>
				</p:fieldset>
							
				<p:fieldset id="notification" style="margin-bottom:20px">
				   <f:facet name="legend">
				     Notification Email <h:link fragment="scrolltop" ><i class="fa fa-caret-square-o-up"/></h:link>
				   </f:facet>
				<p>If an email address is provided (providing an email address is optional), a notification email will be sent once a job is processed. Notification emails includes an attached copy of the results file and a link to the results page.</p>
				</p:fieldset>
				
				<p:fieldset id="input" style="margin-bottom:20px">
				   <f:facet name="legend">
				     Input Example <h:link fragment="scrolltop" ><i class="fa fa-caret-square-o-up"/></h:link>
				   </f:facet>
				<p>An example sequence is available by clicking 'Input Example'. To clear the input box, click 'Clear'.</p>
				</p:fieldset>
				
				<p:fieldset id="output" style="margin-bottom:20px">
				   <f:facet name="legend">
				     Output Example <h:link fragment="scrolltop" ><i class="fa fa-caret-square-o-up"/></h:link>
				   </f:facet>
					<div style="font-family:'Courier New';line-height:0.2;">
					<p>#</p>
					<p># MoRFchibi_web &lt;Release 1.0 Dec. 1st 2015&gt;</p>
<p>#</p>
<p># The University of British Columbia</p>
<p># Michael Smith Laboratories - Center for High-Throughput Biology </p>
<p>#</p>
<table class="simple-table"  cellspacing="0">

<tr>
<td>#</td>
<td>Column</td>
<td>Data type</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>#</td>
<td>1</td>
<td>residue index</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>#</td>
<td>2</td>
<td>residue</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>#</td>
<td>3</td>
<td>MoRFchibi_web</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>#</td>
<td>4</td>
<td>IDP_ESpritz_D</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>#</td>
<td>5</td>
<td>ICS_Conservation</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>#</td>
<td>6</td>
<td>MoRFchibi</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>#</td>
<td>7</td>
<td>MoRFdc</td>
</tr>

</table>

<p># </p>
<p>>Example</p>

<table class="simple-table"  cellspacing="0">

<tr>
<td>1</td>
<td>M</td>
<td>0.733845</td><td>0.496945</td><td>0.66804</td><td>0.6498</td><td>0.59774</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>2</td>
<td>K</td>
<td>0.717923</td><td>0.496565</td><td>0.505305</td><td>0.63156</td><td>0.59755</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>3</td>
<td>E</td>
<td>0.720699</td><td>0.49837</td><td>0.513095</td><td>0.633745</td><td>0.598595</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>4</td>
<td>F</td>
<td>0.718552</td><td>0.498592</td><td>0.671175</td><td>0.63118</td><td>0.59869</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>5</td>
<td>Y</td>
<td>0.695773</td><td>0.498085</td><td>0.672192</td><td>0.6194</td><td>0.58425</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>6</td>
<td>L</td>
<td>0.68868</td><td>0.4978</td><td>0.541215</td><td>0.6118</td><td>0.583965</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>7</td>
<td>T</td>
<td>0.681733</td><td>0.495995</td><td>0.50692</td><td>0.605245</td><td>0.582825</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>......</td>
<td>......</td>
<td>......</td><td>......</td><td>......</td><td>......</td><td>......</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>......</td>
<td>......</td>
<td>......</td><td>......</td><td>......</td><td>......</td><td>......</td>
</tr>

</table>
					</div>
					<br/>
<p>Lines 1 to 15: Results header.</p>
<p>Line 16: The sequence FASTA title</p>
<p>Lines 17 to the end of file:</p>
<ul>
<li>Column 1: Sequence residue index.</li>
<li>Column 2: Sequence residue.</li>
<li>Column 3: The MoRFchibi_Web propensity score.</li>
<li>Column 4: Long trends of protein disorder propensity score generated by ESpritz with the DisProt option, and then normalized.</li>
<li>Column 5: Residues initial conservation score, a general conservation propensity score assembled from the two PSSM generated by aligning the query sequence to the SwissProt and the UniRef90 databases. This score is normalized.</li>
<li>Column 6: MoRF prediction solely based on the local physiochemical properties of the amino acid sequence, and then normalized.</li>
<li>Column 7: MoRF prediction based on protein long trends of disorder and conservation information. This score is normalized.</li>
</ul>

				</p:fieldset>
				
				<p:fieldset id="jobs" style="margin-bottom:20px">
				   <f:facet name="legend">
				     Jobs Table <h:link fragment="scrolltop" ><i class="fa fa-caret-square-o-up"/></h:link>
				   </f:facet>
				<p>Each 'Job' record has the following fields:</p>
					<ol class="spaced-list">
						<li> <b>Id</b>: a unique integer job id. </li>
						<li> <b>Label</b>: the job label is the FASTA sequence title. Job labels are not unique. </li>
						<li> <b>Size [residues]</b>: the size of the sequence in residues. </li>
						<li>
								<b>Status</b>: one of following five values:
								<ul>
								<li>
									<b>&lt;Processing&gt;</b> The sequence is currently been processed.
								</li>
								<li>
									<b>&lt;Position: x&gt;</b> The job is in the server queue at position x.
								</li>
								<li>
									<b>&lt;Pending&gt;</b> The job is in the private user queue.
								</li>
								<li>
									<b>&lt;Completed in Xs&gt;</b> The job has completed in X seconds.
								</li>
								<li>
									<b>&lt;Failed&gt;</b> Error Message.
								</li>
								</ul>
						</li>
						<li> <b>Results</b>: Provides a link to the results page, and button [Graph] to display the graph. </li>
						<li> <b>Save For</b>: displays the number of hours left in the results page life. A renew button &nbsp;<i class="fa fa-refresh"/> &nbsp; renews that life to #{settingsCache.jobPurgeTime} hours. </li>
					</ol>
				</p:fieldset>
				
				<p:fieldset id="graph" style="margin-bottom:20px">
				   <f:facet name="legend">
				     Graphs <h:link fragment="scrolltop" ><i class="fa fa-caret-square-o-up"/></h:link>
				   </f:facet>
				<p>By default, graphs will display only the general MoRF propensity score for the full sequence. Other values can be displayed by clicking on the appropriate label. The vertical Propensity scale is adjusted automatically to best fit the data. One can select an area using the mouse to zoom-in.</p>
				</p:fieldset>
				
				<p:fieldset id="queue" style="margin-bottom:20px">
				   <f:facet name="legend">
				     The Queue Structure <h:link fragment="scrolltop" ><i class="fa fa-caret-square-o-up"/></h:link>
				   </f:facet>
				<p>A two tier queue system with a server queue and user queues is implemented to prevent a single user with large number of jobs dominating the server. In this structure, each user can place up to two jobs in the server queue. If a user submits more than two jobs, those extra jobs will be placed temporarily in that user private queue. Once the user's job in the server queue is completed, if there were pending jobs in that user private queue, the job at the top of that user queue will be moved to the tail of the server queue. User queues are located on the server, thus, once the link to the result page is secured, users can safely close the browser.</p>
				</p:fieldset>
				
				<p:fieldset id="references" style="margin-bottom:20px">
				   <f:facet name="legend">
				     References <h:link fragment="scrolltop" ><i class="fa fa-caret-square-o-up"/></h:link>
				   </f:facet>
				<ul class="spaced-list">
				<li>[1] Malhis N, Wong TCE, Nassar R, Gsponer J. <strong>Computational Identification of MoRFs in Protein Sequences Using Hierarchical Application of Bayes Rule</strong>. <a href="http://journals.plos.org/plosone/article?id=10.1371/journal.pone.0141603" target="_blank"><em>PLOS ONE (2015), DOI: 10.1371/journal.pone.0141603</em>.</a></li>
				<li>[2] Malhis N, and Gsponer J. <strong>Computational Identification of MoRFs in Protein Sequences</strong>.&nbsp; <em><a href="http://bioinformatics.oxfordjournals.org/content/31/11/1738.abstract" target="_blank">Bioinformatics (2015) 31 (11): 1738-1744</a></em>.</li>
				<li>[3] Walsh I1, Martin AJ, Di Domenico T, Tosatto SC. <strong>ESpritz: accurate and fast prediction of protein disorder</strong>.&nbsp; <em><a href="http://bioinformatics.oxfordjournals.org/content/28/4/503.abstract" target="_blank">Bioinformatics. 28(4):503-9.   (2012)</a></em>.</li>
				</ul>
				</p:fieldset>


			</h:form>
<!-- 			<div class="footer">
				<p>
					&copy; UBC, Centre for High-throughput Biology, 2015
					<h:link value="Terms and Conditions" outcome="/about.xhtml" />
					<h:link value="Contact Us" outcome="/about.xhtml" style="position:absolute;right:50px;"/>
				</p>
			</div>
			    </p:layoutUnit>
			</p:layout> -->
		</ui:define>
	</ui:composition>

</h:body>

</html>